Label Lexicons RFC (#1)
atblock-io/papers: rfc/lexicons/0001-label-lexicons.md

- Name: Label Lexicons
- Authors: @dianna-io
- Start Date: 2023-05-02
- RFC PR: [atblock.io/papers#1](https://github.com/atblock-io/papers/pull/1)
- Issue: [atblock.io/atblock-io#1](https://github.com/atblock-io/atblock-io/issues/1)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

Defines 'Label Lexicons' and conventions thereof as extensions to the core [`com.atproto.label`] Lexicon, for the purpose of enabling ecosystem-level tooling and services to emit, federate, and reflect on labels within ontologies applied to records, repos, actors, etc.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

The core [`com.atproto.label`] definition defines the property `label.val` as an untyped string consisting of at most 128 characters, with the description

> "the short string name of the value or type of this label"

> This is good in many ways, as it leaves the door open for extensions and changes in the future when new use cases are discovered, but it is insufficient for fostering a federated ecosystem of mutaually intelligable data and services. In order to accomplish that effectively a set of standards must be defined for how labels are used in practice.

Reviewer: tiny typo

```suggestion
This is good in many ways, as it leaves the door open for extensions and changes in the future when new use cases are discovered, but it is insufficient for fostering a federated ecosystem of mutually intelligible data and services. In order to accomplish that effectively a set of standards must be defined for how labels are used in practice.
```

Author: thanks!
